I have used sed + regex for a personal project but not for work
Converting or making bulk uploads to catalogue records in MARC format
Bash. Unix Shell. Ability to combine large documents and search across them
To quickly locate all files which mention a specific journal title
Use regular expressions to help create review files of metadata
Text Mining for digitisation projects. Potentially automating processes appropriate. Understanding arguments / possibilities for software enhancements.
Getting to know the data part of the challenge. Will prob need to build on knowledge picked up here, but now I know where to start!!!
Comparing e-book data (ie cat records) with physical records. Overlaps? Gaps? Subject havy in one or other?
Nothing concrete yet though I felt last week there definitely be practical applications (thinking cap on!)
Tidying up large downloads of data from the LMS to track missing items with holds on them
*Possibly* combine two csv files (never borrowed + never browsed). Sort in way that removes duplicates (possibly by book barcode number?)
Would need a lot of practice and building up to it... but - batch editing - simple algorithms for doing small but significant change to huge datasets. BUT MOSTLY - talking to the Tech people in clearer, more useful ways
Input into Internal Training Programme + capacity building
Find all VERSIONS of a word (misspelt due to dyslexia) within a database
For searching files that I have inherited from someone else.
Use grep to compare 2 large spreadsheets (one with 1,000 lines and one with 800,000 lines). Currently do it with excel macros but would be quicker with grep.
Reformatting shelfmarks (title, author, etc) in an exported database of item/bib records. Quite possibly in transforming data to different systems eg. alt LMS etc.
Using Git bash/Unix shell to query data obtained from a project
Helps me to understand how researchers using our data might handle it
Cleaning up data after exporting it from a) LMS b) Institutional Repository. Organising shared file system.
1-2-1 sessions with PGRs or PGs, signposting them to these tools that will make their research easier. Naming things more usefully + querying w/ regular expressions
Problem of pulling raw data from LMS!
Getting relevant titles out of a large spreadsheet to support my departments
Data/text mining. System admin. Systems design. Extract. Working w. marc files. Datasets.
Possibly pulling lines out of a horrid csv file our open access system produces. Would like to pick some columns and create the nice tidy spreadsheet I had before automation
I work training people in digital preservation. 1) Given me confidence, reminded me what I know / can learn so I can make online 'sand box' environment to test tools & share courses. 2) Inspired to try and organise 'Archives Carpentry' 3) loads of ideas and skills for new training material :)
I'm hoping to mine metadata from our repository and see research trends at Imperial. I would like to take LMS data (ALMA > good luck) and clean it with Open Refine
